# aisproject
This project aims at investigating the quality and utility of Automatic Identification System (AIS) data. AIS data is primarily used as a tracking system for ships, but with the launch if satellites to collect this data new and previously untested posibilities are emerging.

This project will be split in three different sections:
1. We'll get our hands on raw AIS data sample, decode it with AIS Parser SDK v1.10 and look into what parts of messages will be interesting for us to look into.
2. As the sample from AISHub is too small, we'll download dataset from Marine Cadastre which covers one time zone around Louisiana Offshore Oil Port (LOOP) for the period of January till June, 2015. Oil price was at its lowest point (47 dollars per barrel) in January, 2015 after crashing from 108 dollars per barrel mark in June 2014. Seasonality will also influence crude oil prices under normal supply and demand conditions. But compared to geopolitical tensions, oil glut, economic slowdown, or a financial crisis, the seasonality factor could have a minor effect. We'll work through the dataset, do a quick analysis and clean it, leaving only entries which have passed QC and are interesting for us. 
3. Lastly, we'll dive into GIS part (Geographic Information Systems) where we generate vessel routes and vessel position heatmaps if data consistency allows. Also we will look at major ports and nearby refineries of Texas and Lousiana. Main points of interest are LOOP with three single point mooring (SPM) buoys and port Houston. Final vizualization will be published online.